PS-9053 Release notes for Percona Server for MySQL 8.2.0-1 (#248)
percona/psmysql-docs: docs/release-notes/8.2.0-1.md

# Percona Server for MySQL 8.2.0-1 (2024-01-)

Get started with [Quickstart Guide for Percona Server for MySQL].

[Percona Server for MySQL 8.2.0-1] includes all the features and bug fixes available in the
MySQL 8.2 Community Edition in addition to enterprise-grade features developed by Percona.

## Release highlights

> This release merges the MySQL 8.2 code base. In this release Percona does not introduce any new features, improvements or bug fixes.

Reviewer: We did several visible changes as part of the rebase/merge process
See https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PS-8979 for more details
* Removed remainders of Percona-Specific Encryption features (old 5.7 encrypted bilnog compatibility)
* Removed deprecated "Extended mysqlbinlog" (https://docs.percona.com/percona-server/8.0/extended-mysqlbinlog.html)
* Removed deprecated "rocksdb_strict_collation_check" and "rocksdb_strict_collation_exceptions" RocksDB system variables (https://docs.percona.com/percona-server/8.0/variables.html#rocksdb_strict_collation_check)

Author: updated

Improvements and bug fixes introduced by Oracle for MySQL 8.2 and included in Percona Server for MySQL are the following:

* The insert operations caused `records_in_range` to read too many disk blocks.

* System schema tables with INSTANT ADD columns created before 8.0.29 are incompatible with MySQL versions higher than 8.0.29. Performing DMLs on these tables causes an unexpected server exit.

* A FTS parser plugin now handles single character tokens correctly.

### Deprecation or removal

> The following items are deprecated in this release and using any of these items may cause a warning:

Reviewer 2: Maybe

A future release may remove deprecated variables and options. Using these deprecated items may cause a warning. We recommend migrating from deprecated variables and options as soon as possible.

This release deprecates the following variables and options:
			

			* The `binlog_transaction_dependency_tracking` server system variable.
			

			* The `old` and `new` server system variables.
			

			* The `--character-set-client-handshake` server variable.
			

			* `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST` and the `SHOW PROCESSLIST` command.
			

			* The `performance_schema_show_processlist` variable.

Author: updated

* The `binlog_transaction_dependency_tracking` server system variable.

* The `old` and `new` server system variables.

* The `--character-set-client-handshake` server variable.

* `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST` and the `SHOW PROCESSLIST` command.

* The `performance_schema_show_processlist` variable.

We recommend migrating from these items as soon as possible. They can be removed in a future release.

> The following items are removed in this release and using any of these items causes a warning:

Reviewer 2: If the items are removed, it only causes a warning?

Author: updated

> * The `WAIT_UNTIL_SQL_THREAD_AFTER_GTIDS()` SQL function. Use `WAIT_FOR_EXECUTED_GTID_SET()` instead.

Reviewer 2: Attempting to invoke this function now causes a syntax error.

Author: added

* The `--abort-slave-event-count` and `--disconnect-slave-event-count` server startup options.

> * The `expire_logs_days` server system variable. Use the `binlog_expire_logs_seconds` variable instead.

Reviewer 2: now results in an error.

Author: added

# Percona Server for MySQL 8.2.0-1 (2024-01-)

Get started with [Quickstart Guide for Percona Server for MySQL].

[Percona Server for MySQL 8.2.0-1] includes all the features and bug fixes available in the
MySQL 8.2 Community Edition in addition to enterprise-grade features developed by Percona.

## Release highlights

This release merges the MySQL 8.2 code base. Withing this merge Percona introduces several sagnificant changes:

> * Removes remainders of Percona-specific encryption features (old 5.7 encrypted bilnog compatibility).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Removes remainders of Percona-specific encryption features (support for custom Percona 5.7 encrypted bilnog format).
```

Author: fixed

> * Removes the deprecated `Extended mysqlbinlog` tool.

Reviewer: @oleksandr-kachan Please review/update this statement.

Reviewer: @alina-derkach-oaza just remove this line completely

Author: fixed
